README.md, before:

# SocioRAG

A comprehensive system for analyzing and visualizing social dynamics in texts with advanced RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) capabilities.

## Project Status

**✅ PRODUCTION READY - PERFORMANCE VALIDATED**: The SocioRAG system has successfully completed comprehensive performance testing and demonstrates exceptional production readiness. All components are operating at optimal performance levels with **0% error rate**, **sub-millisecond response times**, and **excellent resource utilization** under concurrent load.

### Production Readiness Metrics
- 🎯 **Error Rate**: 0% across all testing phases
- ⚡ **Response Time**: Sub-millisecond API responses maintained under load
- 📊 **Resource Efficiency**: 15.4% CPU, 83% memory utilization under 3-user concurrent load
- 🔄 **Success Rate**: 100% in multi-user concurrent testing scenarios
- 🏗️ **Component Health**: All services (backend, database, vector_store, embedding_service, llm_client) confirmed healthy
- 📈 **Load Testing**: Successfully completed 10-minute tests with 3 concurrent users

For detailed performance analysis, see the [Comprehensive Performance Report](./test_results/comprehensive_performance_report.html) and [Performance Testing Documentation](./docs/performance_testing_guide.md).

## Performance Testing & Monitoring

SocioRAG includes a comprehensive performance testing and monitoring infrastructure that has validated production readiness:

### Real-time Performance Monitoring

```powershell
# Start real-time performance monitor (15-minute monitoring session)
.\performance_monitor.ps1

# Custom monitoring duration and refresh intervals
.\performance_monitor.ps1 -MonitorDurationMinutes 30 -RefreshIntervalSeconds 5
```

### Load Testing

```powershell
# Standard load test (3 concurrent users, 10 minutes)
.\load_test.ps1

# Custom load testing scenarios
.\load_test.ps1 -ConcurrentUsers 5 -TestDurationMinutes 20 -RequestDelaySeconds 1
```

### Performance Test Results

Our comprehensive testing has demonstrated:

- **✅ Perfect Reliability**: 0% error rate across 826+ API calls in concurrent testing
- **⚡ Excellent Performance**: Sub-millisecond response times maintained under load
- **📊 Optimal Resource Usage**: Efficient CPU scaling (9.9% → 15.4%) and stable memory management
- **🔄 Concurrent Handling**: Successfully processes multiple simultaneous users without degradation
- **🏗️ System Stability**: All components remain healthy throughout extended testing periods

### Test Reports

- [**HTML Performance Report**](./test_results/comprehensive_performance_report.html) - Visual performance dashboard with production deployment recommendations
- [**Real-time Performance Analysis**](./test_results/performance_report_realtime_20250528.md) - Detailed performance metrics and system health assessment
- **JSON Test Results** - Machine-readable test data in `./logs/load_test_results_*.json`

## Setup Instructions

1. **Prerequisites**
   - Python 3.12.9
   - [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) ≥ 23.10 (recommended)
   - Git 2.30+

2. **Environment Setup**

   Choose one of the following methods:

   ### Using Conda (Recommended)

   ```bash   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sociorag

   # Create environment from environment.yml
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   conda activate sociorag
   ```

   ### Using pip

   ```bash   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sociorag

   # Create and activate virtual environment
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # On Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate     # On Unix/macOS

   # Install dependencies
   python -m pip install --upgrade pip
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   # Download spaCy model (required for both pip and conda installations)
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
   ```

   Note: The `requirements.txt` file contains only the direct dependencies. Using conda with `environment.yml` is recommended as it provides a more complete and tested environment.

3. **Repository Structure**

   ```text
   backend/              # Backend service
     app/
       core/            # Core business logic
       ingest/         # Data ingestion
         entity_extraction.py  # Robust entity extraction
         pipeline_fixed_improved.py  # Improved ingestion pipeline
       retriever/      # Vector store and retrieval
       api/           # FastAPI endpoints
   ui/src/            # Frontend code
   resources/         # Static resources
   input/            # Input data files
   saved/            # Saved models and states
   vector_store/     # Vector embeddings storage
   docs/             # Documentation
   ```

4. **Starting the Application**

   The application can be started using the included quick start script:

   ```powershell
   # Start both backend and frontend
   .\quick_start.ps1
   ```

   This will:
   - Start the backend server on http://127.0.0.1:8000
   - Start the frontend on http://localhost:5173
   - Open the frontend in your default browser

## Global Configuration

The project uses a centralized configuration system that allows for easy adjustment of parameters:

### Changing Defaults

1. Copy `.env.example` → `.env` and tweak numeric thresholds.
2. Or create `config.yaml` and pass its path to `get_config()`:

```python
from backend.app.core.config import get_config
cfg = get_config("config.yaml")
print(cfg.TOP_K)   # 50
```

All configuration parameters are defined in `backend/app/core/config.py` and include:

- **Paths**: BASE_DIR, INPUT_DIR, SAVED_DIR, VECTOR_DIR, GRAPH_DB, PDF_THEME
- **Models**: EMBEDDING_MODEL, RERANKER_MODEL, ENTITY_LLM_MODEL, ANSWER_LLM_MODEL, TRANSLATE_LLM_MODEL
- **Thresholds/Parameters**: CHUNK_SIM (0.85), ENTITY_SIM (0.90), GRAPH_SIM (0.50), TOP_K (100), TOP_K_RERANK (15), MAX_CONTEXT_FRACTION (0.4)
- **Resources**: SPACY_MODEL, LOG_LEVEL
- **Limits**: HISTORY_LIMIT (15), SAVED_LIMIT (15)
- **Enhanced Logging**: ENHANCED_LOGGING_ENABLED, LOG_STRUCTURED_FORMAT, LOG_CORRELATION_ENABLED, LOG_PERFORMANCE_TRACKING, retention and alerting settings

## Enhanced Entity Extraction

SocioRAG includes a robust entity extraction system that uses LLMs to extract entities and relationships from text. Key features include:

- **Resilient JSON Parsing**: Handles various response formats from the OpenRouter API.
- **Multiple Fallback Strategies**: Ensures maximum data extraction even from malformed responses.
- **Entity Validation**: Guarantees that extracted entities conform to the required schema.
- **Retry Mechanism**: Automatically retries failed API calls for higher reliability.
- **Response Caching**: Avoids redundant API calls for significant performance gains.
- **Batch Processing**: Processes multiple chunks concurrently with controlled concurrency.
- **Structured Error Reporting**: Provides detailed debug information for better troubleshooting.
- **Advanced JSON Parsing**: Adds additional parsing strategies for complex malformed responses.

To use the enhanced entity extraction:

```python
from backend.app.ingest.enhanced_entity_extraction import (
    extract_entities_from_text,
    extract_entities_with_retry,
    batch_process_chunks,
    clear_cache
)

# Simple extraction
entities = await extract_entities_from_text(chunk)

# Extraction with retry and debug info
entities, debug_info = await extract_entities_with_retry(chunk, max_retries=3)

# Batch processing
batch_results = await batch_process_chunks(chunks, batch_size=5, concurrency_limit=3)
```

To test and benchmark the enhanced functionality:

```powershell
# Test the enhanced entity extraction
python tests/test_enhanced_entity_extraction.py

# See a simple example of enhanced entity extraction
python tests/example_enhanced_entity_extraction.py
```

For detailed documentation, see:

- [Enhanced Entity Extraction](./docs/enhanced_entity_extraction.md)
- [Complete Entity Extraction Documentation](./docs/entity_extraction_complete.md)
- [Cleanup Summary](./docs/entity_extraction_cleanup_summary.md)

## Enhanced Logging System

SocioRAG includes a comprehensive, production-ready logging system with advanced monitoring, analysis, and debugging capabilities. The enhanced logging system provides:

### Key Features

- **Structured JSON Logging**: Machine-readable log entries with consistent formatting
- **Correlation IDs**: Track requests across multiple components and services  
- **Performance Monitoring**: Automatic timing and performance metrics collection
- **Real-time Analysis**: Live log analysis with error summaries and performance insights
- **REST API**: Complete API for log analysis, search, and monitoring
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Configurable log rotation and retention policies
- **Health Monitoring**: System health checks and alerting capabilities

### Quick Configuration

Add these settings to your `.env` file to enable enhanced logging:

```bash
# Enhanced Logging Features
ENHANCED_LOGGING_ENABLED=true
LOG_STRUCTURED_FORMAT=true
LOG_CORRELATION_ENABLED=true
LOG_PERFORMANCE_TRACKING=true

# File Management & Monitoring
LOG_FILE_RETENTION_DAYS=30
LOG_SLOW_REQUEST_THRESHOLD_MS=1000
LOG_ERROR_RATE_THRESHOLD=0.05
```

### Log Analysis API

Access comprehensive logging analytics through REST endpoints:

```bash
# Error analysis
GET /api/logs/errors?hours=24

# Performance metrics  
GET /api/logs/performance?hours=1

# System health monitoring
GET /api/logs/health

# Search and correlation tracing
POST /api/logs/search
GET /api/logs/correlation/{correlation_id}
```

### Usage Examples

```python
from backend.app.core.enhanced_logger import EnhancedLogger

logger = EnhancedLogger()

# Structured logging with correlation tracking
with logger.correlation_context("operation-123"):
    logger.info("Processing request", extra={"user_id": "user123"})

# Automatic performance timing
@logger.time_operation("database_query") 
async def query_database():
    # Your database operation
    pass
```

For complete documentation, see [Enhanced Logging System Documentation](./docs/logging_system_documentation.md).

## Project Organization

- `backend/app/ingest/` - Core implementation files
- `tests/` - Test and example files
- `scripts/` - Utility scripts
- `docs/` - Documentation files

## Comprehensive Documentation

The project includes extensive documentation to help users and developers:

### User Documentation

- **[Installation Guide](./docs/installation_guide.md)** - Complete setup instructions for all platforms
- **[API Documentation](./docs/api_documentation.md)** - Comprehensive API reference with examples
- **[API Endpoints Reference](./docs/api_endpoints_reference.md)** - Quick reference for all available endpoints
- **[Project Overview](./docs/project_overview.md)** - High-level project summary and current status

### Developer Documentation

- **[Architecture Documentation](./docs/architecture_documentation.md)** - System design and component overview
- **[Developer Guide](./docs/developer_guide.md)** - Development environment, coding standards, and contribution guidelines
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase6_implementation_summary.md)** - FastAPI backend completion details
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Plan](./docs/phase6_implementation_plan.md)** - Roadmap for FastAPI backend implementation

### Technical Documentation

- **[Enhanced Entity Extraction](./docs/enhanced_entity_extraction.md)** - Advanced entity extraction capabilities
- **[Enhanced Logging System](./docs/logging_system_documentation.md)** - Comprehensive logging with monitoring, analysis, and REST API
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase6_implementation_summary.md)** - API integration and WebSocket support
- **[Phase 5 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase5_implementation_summary.md)** - Answer generation and PDF export details
- **Additional Phase Documentation** - Complete implementation reports for all phases

## Quick Start

1. **Setup Environment**
   ```bash
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   conda activate sociorag
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
   ```

2. **Configure API Keys**

   You have two options for configuring your OpenRouter API key:

   **Option A: Environment File (Traditional)**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your OpenRouter API key
   ```

   **Option B: Web Interface (Recommended)**
   ```bash
   # Start the application first
   python -m backend.app.main
   # Then open http://127.0.0.1:8000/settings in your browser
   # Navigate to "System Configuration" section
   # Click "Configure/Update" next to OpenRouter API Key
   # Enter your API key and click "Save Key"
   ```

3. **Test Installation**

   ```bash
   python test_phase5_simple.py
   ```

4. **Start API Server**

   ```bash
   python -m backend.app.main
   # Server will be available at http://127.0.0.1:8000
   # API docs available at http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
   ```

5. **Using the API**

   **Document Management:**

   ```bash
   # Reset corpus (clear existing data)
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/reset

   # Upload a PDF document
   curl -X POST -F "file=@./sample.pdf" http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/upload

   # Manually trigger processing
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/process

   # Stream processing progress (SSE)
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/progress
   ```

   **Question Answering:**

   ```bash
   # Ask a question (streaming response)
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/qa/ask -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"question": "What are the main themes in the document?"}'

   # Get query history
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/history/

   # Get usage statistics
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/history/stats
   ```

6. **Testing All Endpoints**

   ```bash
   # Test all API endpoints
   python scripts/test_phase6_api.py all

   # Test specific endpoint (e.g., WebSocket)
   python scripts/test_phase6_api.py websocket
   ```

## Current Features (Phase 7+ Complete)

- ✅ **Enhanced Entity Extraction** - LLM-powered entity and relationship extraction
- ✅ **Vector Storage & Retrieval** - SQLite-vec based semantic search
- ✅ **Streaming Q&A System** - Real-time answer generation with citations
- ✅ **PDF Export** - Professional report generation with WeasyPrint
- ✅ **Query History** - Analytics and tracking with JSONL logging
- ✅ **FastAPI Integration** - Complete REST API with comprehensive endpoints
- ✅ **Server-Sent Events** - Real-time streaming for progress and answers
- ✅ **WebSocket Support** - Bidirectional communication with heartbeat mechanisms
- ✅ **Ingestion API** - Document upload, processing, and monitoring endpoints
- ✅ **History Management** - Full history tracking and retrieval with filtering
- ✅ **API Documentation** - Interactive Swagger UI with endpoint reference
- ✅ **Frontend Web Application** - Modern Preact-based UI with responsive design
- ✅ **Administrative Interface** - System monitoring, configuration management, and API key management
- ✅ **Real-time Configuration Updates** - Update OpenRouter API keys through web interface without server restart
- ✅ **Enhanced Logging System** - Comprehensive logging with correlation IDs, performance monitoring, real-time analysis, and REST API for log management
- ✅ **Performance Testing Infrastructure** - Comprehensive load testing, real-time monitoring, and production readiness validation
- ✅ **Production Monitoring** - Real-time dashboard with system health checks and performance metrics
- ✅ **Load Testing Framework** - Multi-user concurrent testing with detailed performance analysis
- ✅ **Automated Reporting** - HTML and JSON performance reports with production deployment recommendations

## Next Steps

With the successful completion of **Phase 7+ (Performance Testing & Production Validation)**, the SocioRAG system has achieved full production readiness. Current status and recommended next steps:

### ✅ Completed Phases
- **Phase 7**: Frontend Development & API Integration
- **Phase 7+**: Performance Testing Infrastructure & Production Validation

### 🚀 Ready for Production Deployment

The system is now validated for production use with comprehensive performance testing demonstrating:
- Perfect reliability (0% error rate)
- Excellent performance (sub-millisecond responses)
- Optimal resource utilization
- Successful concurrent user handling

### 📋 Optional Future Enhancements

#### Phase 8: Advanced Testing & Utilities
- **Unit tests** (`pytest`) for comprehensive component testing
- **CLI helpers**: `python -m sociorag.reset`, `python -m sociorag.ingest input/*.pdf`
- **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions for automated testing
- **Advanced Load Testing**: Extended performance scenarios for enterprise deployment

#### Phase 9: Enterprise Features
- **Horizontal Scaling**: Multi-instance deployment capabilities
- **Advanced Analytics**: Enhanced performance monitoring and user analytics
- **Security Hardening**: Enterprise-grade security features
- **API Rate Limiting**: Advanced request throttling and management

See the [Phase 8 Deep Dive Plan](./instructions/phase8_deep_dive_plan.md) for detailed future roadmap.

## Support and Contributing

- **Issues**: Report bugs and request features through the issue tracker
- **Contributing**: See [Developer Guide](./docs/developer_guide.md) for contribution guidelines
- **Documentation**: All documentation is in the `docs/` directory

## License

TBD

Commit message:

Complete documentation updates and cleanup
- Added historical notes to Phase 7 documentation explaining removal of streaming
- Updated project overview to remove streaming references
- Updated API documentation with ingestion endpoints
- Organized PowerShell scripts into dedicated folder
- Added test request files for API testing

All documentation now reflects the current non-streaming architecture

README.md, after:

# SocioRAG

A comprehensive system for analyzing and visualizing social dynamics in texts with advanced RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) capabilities.

## Project Status

**✅ PRODUCTION READY - PERFORMANCE VALIDATED**: The SocioRAG system has successfully completed comprehensive performance testing and demonstrates exceptional production readiness. All components are operating at optimal performance levels with **0% error rate**, **sub-millisecond response times**, and **excellent resource utilization** under concurrent load.

### Production Readiness Metrics
- 🎯 **Error Rate**: 0% across all testing phases
- ⚡ **Response Time**: Sub-millisecond API responses maintained under load
- 📊 **Resource Efficiency**: 15.4% CPU, 83% memory utilization under 3-user concurrent load
- 🔄 **Success Rate**: 100% in multi-user concurrent testing scenarios
- 🏗️ **Component Health**: All services (backend, database, vector_store, embedding_service, llm_client) confirmed healthy
- 📈 **Load Testing**: Successfully completed 10-minute tests with 3 concurrent users

For detailed performance analysis, see the [Comprehensive Performance Report](./test_results/comprehensive_performance_report.html) and [Performance Testing Documentation](./docs/performance_testing_guide.md).

## Performance Testing & Monitoring

SocioRAG includes a comprehensive performance testing and monitoring infrastructure that has validated production readiness:

### Real-time Performance Monitoring

```powershell
# Start real-time performance monitor (15-minute monitoring session)
.\performance_monitor.ps1

# Custom monitoring duration and refresh intervals
.\performance_monitor.ps1 -MonitorDurationMinutes 30 -RefreshIntervalSeconds 5
```

### Load Testing

```powershell
# Standard load test (3 concurrent users, 10 minutes)
.\load_test.ps1

# Custom load testing scenarios
.\load_test.ps1 -ConcurrentUsers 5 -TestDurationMinutes 20 -RequestDelaySeconds 1
```

### Performance Test Results

Our comprehensive testing has demonstrated:

- **✅ Perfect Reliability**: 0% error rate across 826+ API calls in concurrent testing
- **⚡ Excellent Performance**: Sub-millisecond response times maintained under load
- **📊 Optimal Resource Usage**: Efficient CPU scaling (9.9% → 15.4%) and stable memory management
- **🔄 Concurrent Handling**: Successfully processes multiple simultaneous users without degradation
- **🏗️ System Stability**: All components remain healthy throughout extended testing periods

### Test Reports

- [**HTML Performance Report**](./test_results/comprehensive_performance_report.html) - Visual performance dashboard with production deployment recommendations
- [**Real-time Performance Analysis**](./test_results/performance_report_realtime_20250528.md) - Detailed performance metrics and system health assessment
- **JSON Test Results** - Machine-readable test data in `./logs/load_test_results_*.json`

## Setup Instructions

1. **Prerequisites**
   - Python 3.12.9
   - [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) ≥ 23.10 (recommended)
   - Git 2.30+

2. **Environment Setup**

   Choose one of the following methods:

   ### Using Conda (Recommended)

   ```bash   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sociorag

   # Create environment from environment.yml
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   conda activate sociorag
   ```

   ### Using pip

   ```bash   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sociorag

   # Create and activate virtual environment
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # On Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate     # On Unix/macOS

   # Install dependencies
   python -m pip install --upgrade pip
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   # Download spaCy model (required for both pip and conda installations)
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
   ```

   Note: The `requirements.txt` file contains only the direct dependencies. Using conda with `environment.yml` is recommended as it provides a more complete and tested environment.

3. **Repository Structure**

   ```text
   backend/              # Backend service
     app/
       core/            # Core business logic
       ingest/         # Data ingestion
         entity_extraction.py  # Robust entity extraction
         pipeline_fixed_improved.py  # Improved ingestion pipeline
       retriever/      # Vector store and retrieval
       api/           # FastAPI endpoints
   ui/src/            # Frontend code
   resources/         # Static resources
   input/            # Input data files
   saved/            # Saved models and states
   vector_store/     # Vector embeddings storage
   docs/             # Documentation
   ```

4. **Starting the Application**

   The application can be started using the included quick start script:

   ```powershell
   # Start both backend and frontend
   .\quick_start.ps1
   ```

   This will:
   - Start the backend server on http://127.0.0.1:8000
   - Start the frontend on http://localhost:5173
   - Open the frontend in your default browser

## Global Configuration

The project uses a centralized configuration system that allows for easy adjustment of parameters:

### Changing Defaults

1. Copy `.env.example` → `.env` and tweak numeric thresholds.
2. Or create `config.yaml` and pass its path to `get_config()`:

```python
from backend.app.core.config import get_config
cfg = get_config("config.yaml")
print(cfg.TOP_K)   # 50
```

All configuration parameters are defined in `backend/app/core/config.py` and include:

- **Paths**: BASE_DIR, INPUT_DIR, SAVED_DIR, VECTOR_DIR, GRAPH_DB, PDF_THEME
- **Models**: EMBEDDING_MODEL, RERANKER_MODEL, ENTITY_LLM_MODEL, ANSWER_LLM_MODEL, TRANSLATE_LLM_MODEL
- **Thresholds/Parameters**: CHUNK_SIM (0.85), ENTITY_SIM (0.90), GRAPH_SIM (0.50), TOP_K (100), TOP_K_RERANK (15), MAX_CONTEXT_FRACTION (0.4)
- **Resources**: SPACY_MODEL, LOG_LEVEL
- **Limits**: HISTORY_LIMIT (15), SAVED_LIMIT (15)
- **Enhanced Logging**: ENHANCED_LOGGING_ENABLED, LOG_STRUCTURED_FORMAT, LOG_CORRELATION_ENABLED, LOG_PERFORMANCE_TRACKING, retention and alerting settings

## Enhanced Entity Extraction

SocioRAG includes a robust entity extraction system that uses LLMs to extract entities and relationships from text. Key features include:

- **Resilient JSON Parsing**: Handles various response formats from the OpenRouter API.
- **Multiple Fallback Strategies**: Ensures maximum data extraction even from malformed responses.
- **Entity Validation**: Guarantees that extracted entities conform to the required schema.
- **Retry Mechanism**: Automatically retries failed API calls for higher reliability.
- **Response Caching**: Avoids redundant API calls for significant performance gains.
- **Batch Processing**: Processes multiple chunks concurrently with controlled concurrency.
- **Structured Error Reporting**: Provides detailed debug information for better troubleshooting.
- **Advanced JSON Parsing**: Adds additional parsing strategies for complex malformed responses.

To use the enhanced entity extraction:

```python
from backend.app.ingest.enhanced_entity_extraction import (
    extract_entities_from_text,
    extract_entities_with_retry,
    batch_process_chunks,
    clear_cache
)

# Simple extraction
entities = await extract_entities_from_text(chunk)

# Extraction with retry and debug info
entities, debug_info = await extract_entities_with_retry(chunk, max_retries=3)

# Batch processing
batch_results = await batch_process_chunks(chunks, batch_size=5, concurrency_limit=3)
```

To test and benchmark the enhanced functionality:

```powershell
# Test the enhanced entity extraction
python tests/test_enhanced_entity_extraction.py

# See a simple example of enhanced entity extraction
python tests/example_enhanced_entity_extraction.py
```

For detailed documentation, see:

- [Enhanced Entity Extraction](./docs/enhanced_entity_extraction.md)
- [Complete Entity Extraction Documentation](./docs/entity_extraction_complete.md)
- [Cleanup Summary](./docs/entity_extraction_cleanup_summary.md)

## Enhanced Logging System

SocioRAG includes a comprehensive, production-ready logging system with advanced monitoring, analysis, and debugging capabilities. The enhanced logging system provides:

### Key Features

- **Structured JSON Logging**: Machine-readable log entries with consistent formatting
- **Correlation IDs**: Track requests across multiple components and services  
- **Performance Monitoring**: Automatic timing and performance metrics collection
- **Real-time Analysis**: Live log analysis with error summaries and performance insights
- **REST API**: Complete API for log analysis, search, and monitoring
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Configurable log rotation and retention policies
- **Health Monitoring**: System health checks and alerting capabilities

### Quick Configuration

Add these settings to your `.env` file to enable enhanced logging:

```bash
# Enhanced Logging Features
ENHANCED_LOGGING_ENABLED=true
LOG_STRUCTURED_FORMAT=true
LOG_CORRELATION_ENABLED=true
LOG_PERFORMANCE_TRACKING=true

# File Management & Monitoring
LOG_FILE_RETENTION_DAYS=30
LOG_SLOW_REQUEST_THRESHOLD_MS=1000
LOG_ERROR_RATE_THRESHOLD=0.05
```

### Log Analysis API

Access comprehensive logging analytics through REST endpoints:

```bash
# Error analysis
GET /api/logs/errors?hours=24

# Performance metrics  
GET /api/logs/performance?hours=1

# System health monitoring
GET /api/logs/health

# Search and correlation tracing
POST /api/logs/search
GET /api/logs/correlation/{correlation_id}
```

### Usage Examples

```python
from backend.app.core.enhanced_logger import EnhancedLogger

logger = EnhancedLogger()

# Structured logging with correlation tracking
with logger.correlation_context("operation-123"):
    logger.info("Processing request", extra={"user_id": "user123"})

# Automatic performance timing
@logger.time_operation("database_query") 
async def query_database():
    # Your database operation
    pass
```

For complete documentation, see [Enhanced Logging System Documentation](./docs/logging_system_documentation.md).

## Project Organization

- `backend/app/ingest/` - Core implementation files
- `tests/` - Test and example files
- `scripts/` - Utility scripts
- `docs/` - Documentation files

## Comprehensive Documentation

The project includes extensive documentation to help users and developers:

### User Documentation

- **[Installation Guide](./docs/installation_guide.md)** - Complete setup instructions for all platforms
- **[API Documentation](./docs/api_documentation.md)** - Comprehensive API reference with examples
- **[API Endpoints Reference](./docs/api_endpoints_reference.md)** - Quick reference for all available endpoints
- **[Project Overview](./docs/project_overview.md)** - High-level project summary and current status

### Developer Documentation

- **[Architecture Documentation](./docs/architecture_documentation.md)** - System design and component overview
- **[Developer Guide](./docs/developer_guide.md)** - Development environment, coding standards, and contribution guidelines
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase6_implementation_summary.md)** - FastAPI backend completion details
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Plan](./docs/phase6_implementation_plan.md)** - Roadmap for FastAPI backend implementation

### Technical Documentation

- **[Enhanced Entity Extraction](./docs/enhanced_entity_extraction.md)** - Advanced entity extraction capabilities
- **[Enhanced Logging System](./docs/logging_system_documentation.md)** - Comprehensive logging with monitoring, analysis, and REST API
- **[Phase 6 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase6_implementation_summary.md)** - API integration and WebSocket support
- **[Phase 5 Implementation Summary](./docs/phase5_implementation_summary.md)** - Answer generation and PDF export details
- **Additional Phase Documentation** - Complete implementation reports for all phases

## Quick Start

1. **Setup Environment**
   ```bash
   conda env create -f environment.yml
   conda activate sociorag
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
   ```

2. **Configure API Keys**

   You have two options for configuring your OpenRouter API key:

   **Option A: Environment File (Traditional)**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your OpenRouter API key
   ```

   **Option B: Web Interface (Recommended)**
   ```bash
   # Start the application first
   python -m backend.app.main
   # Then open http://127.0.0.1:8000/settings in your browser
   # Navigate to "System Configuration" section
   # Click "Configure/Update" next to OpenRouter API Key
   # Enter your API key and click "Save Key"
   ```

3. **Test Installation**

   ```bash
   python test_phase5_simple.py
   ```

4. **Start API Server**

   ```bash
   python -m backend.app.main
   # Server will be available at http://127.0.0.1:8000
   # API docs available at http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
   ```

5. **Using the API**

   **Document Management:**

   ```bash
   # Reset corpus (clear existing data)
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/reset   # Upload a PDF document
   curl -X POST -F "file=@./sample.pdf" http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/upload

   # Manually trigger processing
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/process

   # Get processing progress (polling)
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/ingest/progress
   ```

   **Question Answering:**

   ```bash
   # Ask a question (complete JSON response)
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/qa/ask -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"query": "What are the main themes in the document?", "translate_to_arabic": false}'

   # Get query history
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/history/

   # Get usage statistics
   curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/qa/stats
   ```

6. **Testing All Endpoints**

   ```bash
   # Test all API endpoints
   python scripts/test_phase6_api.py all

   # Test specific endpoint (e.g., WebSocket)
   python scripts/test_phase6_api.py websocket
   ```

## Current Features (Phase 7+ Complete)

- ✅ **Enhanced Entity Extraction** - LLM-powered entity and relationship extraction
- ✅ **Vector Storage & Retrieval** - SQLite-vec based semantic search
- ✅ **Q&A System** - Complete answer generation with citations and context
- ✅ **PDF Export** - Professional report generation with WeasyPrint
- ✅ **Query History** - Analytics and tracking with JSONL logging
- ✅ **FastAPI Integration** - Complete REST API with comprehensive endpoints
- ✅ **HTTP Request/Response Architecture** - Reliable standard HTTP communication
- ✅ **WebSocket Support** - Bidirectional communication with heartbeat mechanisms
- ✅ **Ingestion API** - Document upload, processing, and monitoring endpoints
- ✅ **History Management** - Full history tracking and retrieval with filtering
- ✅ **API Documentation** - Interactive Swagger UI with endpoint reference
- ✅ **Frontend Web Application** - Modern Preact-based UI with responsive design
- ✅ **Administrative Interface** - System monitoring, configuration management, and API key management
- ✅ **Real-time Configuration Updates** - Update OpenRouter API keys through web interface without server restart
- ✅ **Enhanced Logging System** - Comprehensive logging with correlation IDs, performance monitoring, real-time analysis, and REST API for log management
- ✅ **Performance Testing Infrastructure** - Comprehensive load testing, real-time monitoring, and production readiness validation
- ✅ **Production Monitoring** - Real-time dashboard with system health checks and performance metrics
- ✅ **Load Testing Framework** - Multi-user concurrent testing with detailed performance analysis
- ✅ **Automated Reporting** - HTML and JSON performance reports with production deployment recommendations

## Next Steps

With the successful completion of **Phase 7+ (Performance Testing & Production Validation)**, the SocioRAG system has achieved full production readiness. Current status and recommended next steps:

### ✅ Completed Phases
- **Phase 7**: Frontend Development & API Integration
- **Phase 7+**: Performance Testing Infrastructure & Production Validation

### 🚀 Ready for Production Deployment

The system is now validated for production use with comprehensive performance testing demonstrating:
- Perfect reliability (0% error rate)
- Excellent performance (sub-millisecond responses)
- Optimal resource utilization
- Successful concurrent user handling

### 📋 Optional Future Enhancements

#### Phase 8: Advanced Testing & Utilities
- **Unit tests** (`pytest`) for comprehensive component testing
- **CLI helpers**: `python -m sociorag.reset`, `python -m sociorag.ingest input/*.pdf`
- **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions for automated testing
- **Advanced Load Testing**: Extended performance scenarios for enterprise deployment

#### Phase 9: Enterprise Features
- **Horizontal Scaling**: Multi-instance deployment capabilities
- **Advanced Analytics**: Enhanced performance monitoring and user analytics
- **Security Hardening**: Enterprise-grade security features
- **API Rate Limiting**: Advanced request throttling and management

See the [Phase 8 Deep Dive Plan](./instructions/phase8_deep_dive_plan.md) for detailed future roadmap.

## Support and Contributing

- **Issues**: Report bugs and request features through the issue tracker
- **Contributing**: See [Developer Guide](./docs/developer_guide.md) for contribution guidelines
- **Documentation**: All documentation is in the `docs/` directory

## License

TBD
