docs/phase7_implementation_plan.md, before:

# SocioRAG Phase 7 Implementation Plan

## Phase 7 Overview: Frontend Development

Phase 7 focuses on developing a modern React-based user interface that integrates with the comprehensive FastAPI backend created in Phase 6. This frontend will provide an intuitive interface for document management, real-time Q&A with streaming responses, and visualization of history data.

## Current Status Assessment

### ✅ Completed (Phase 6)
- Complete FastAPI backend with comprehensive API coverage
- Document management API endpoints (upload, processing, metadata)
- Q&A endpoints with streaming response capability
- History management endpoints with filtering and pagination
- Real-time progress tracking via SSE
- WebSocket support for bidirectional communication

### 🚧 Phase 7 Objectives
1. **React Application Setup** - Project structure and build configuration
2. **UI Component Library** - Design system and reusable components
3. **Document Management Interface** - Upload, processing, and management UI
4. **Real-time Q&A Interface** - Streaming answers with citations
5. **History Dashboard** - Search, filtering, and analytics visualization
6. **Responsive Design** - Mobile and desktop compatibility
7. **API Integration** - Comprehensive backend connectivity

## Implementation Roadmap

### 1. React Application Setup

#### 1.1 Project Initialization
```bash
# Create React app with TypeScript
npx create-react-app sociorag-ui --template typescript
cd sociorag-ui

# Install core dependencies
npm install axios react-router-dom @mantine/core @mantine/hooks @emotion/react
```

#### 1.2 Project Structure
```
sociorag-ui/
├── public/
├── src/
│   ├── api/                 # API integration
│   ├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── contexts/            # React contexts
│   ├── hooks/               # Custom hooks
│   ├── pages/               # Main application pages
│   ├── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   ├── App.tsx              # Main application component
│   └── index.tsx            # Application entry point
└── package.json
```

### 2. UI Component Library

#### 2.1 Core Components
- Design system with consistent color scheme, typography, and spacing
- Component library with buttons, inputs, cards, modals, and notifications
- Layout components for application structure

#### 2.2 Specialized Components
- Document uploader with drag-and-drop functionality
- Processing progress indicator with real-time updates
- Streaming response display with citation highlighting
- Search interface with filters and sorting options

### 3. Document Management Interface

#### 3.1 Upload Interface
- Drag-and-drop file upload area
- File selection dialog
- Upload progress indicator
- File validation and error handling

#### 3.2 Document Processing
- Processing status display
- Real-time progress updates via SSE
- Processing stage indicators
- Entity extraction visualization

#### 3.3 Document Management
- Document list with metadata
- Search and filter capabilities
- Document deletion functionality
- Processing history

### 4. Real-time Q&A Interface

#### 4.1 Question Input
- Natural language query input
- Question history suggestions
- Voice input option (if time permits)

#### 4.2 Answer Display
- Streaming token-by-token response
- Citation highlighting and references
- Expandable source context
- Copy and export functionality

#### 4.3 Real-time Communication
- SSE implementation for streaming responses
- WebSocket integration for bidirectional communication
- Connection status indicators
- Automatic reconnection handling

### 5. History Dashboard

#### 5.1 History List
- Paginated history records
- Search and filtering capabilities
- Record details view
- Delete functionality

#### 5.2 Analytics Visualization
- Usage statistics charts
- Question types analysis
- Response time metrics
- Document coverage visualization

### 6. Responsive Design

#### 6.1 Mobile Layout
- Touch-friendly interfaces
- Responsive layout adjustments
- Performance optimizations for mobile devices

#### 6.2 Desktop Enhancements
- Keyboard shortcuts
- Multi-pane layouts
- Advanced visualization options

### 7. API Integration

#### 7.1 API Client
- Axios-based API client
- Request/response interceptors
- Error handling
- Authentication integration (if implemented)

#### 7.2 Real-time Integration
- SSE client implementation
- WebSocket client implementation
- Reconnection logic
- Event handling

## Development Approach

The frontend development will follow these principles:

1. **Component-First Development** - Build and test individual components before integration
2. **API-Driven Development** - Design components based on API contracts from Phase 6
3. **Progressive Enhancement** - Start with core functionality and add advanced features incrementally
4. **Responsive-First Design** - Design for mobile first, then enhance for desktop
5. **Accessibility Focus** - Ensure all components are accessible and follow WCAG guidelines

## Testing Strategy

1. **Component Testing** - Unit tests for individual components
2. **Integration Testing** - Tests for component interactions
3. **End-to-End Testing** - Full application workflows
4. **API Mock Testing** - Testing with mocked API responses
5. **Real Backend Testing** - Integration tests with the actual backend

## Delivery Timeline

- Week 1: Project setup, component library, and basic application structure
- Week 2: Document management interface and API integration
- Week 3: Q&A interface with real-time capabilities
- Week 4: History dashboard, responsive design, and final polish

## Success Criteria

- All Phase 7 objectives implemented and functional
- Comprehensive integration with Phase 6 backend
- Responsive design working on both mobile and desktop
- Clean, intuitive user interface for all core functionality
- Comprehensive documentation for frontend development

---

*Plan prepared on May 26, 2025*

Commit message:

Complete documentation updates and cleanup
- Added historical notes to Phase 7 documentation explaining removal of streaming
- Updated project overview to remove streaming references
- Updated API documentation with ingestion endpoints
- Organized PowerShell scripts into dedicated folder
- Added test request files for API testing

All documentation now reflects the current non-streaming architecture

docs/phase7_implementation_plan.md, after:

# SocioRAG Phase 7 Implementation Plan

> **Note**: This document describes the historical implementation plan for Phase 7 when streaming functionality was included. As of the latest version, streaming functionality has been removed and replaced with standard HTTP request/response architecture for improved reliability.

## Phase 7 Overview: Frontend Development

Phase 7 focuses on developing a modern React-based user interface that integrates with the comprehensive FastAPI backend created in Phase 6. This frontend will provide an intuitive interface for document management, real-time Q&A with streaming responses, and visualization of history data.

## Current Status Assessment

### ✅ Completed (Phase 6)
- Complete FastAPI backend with comprehensive API coverage
- Document management API endpoints (upload, processing, metadata)
- Q&A endpoints with streaming response capability
- History management endpoints with filtering and pagination
- Real-time progress tracking via SSE
- WebSocket support for bidirectional communication

### 🚧 Phase 7 Objectives
1. **React Application Setup** - Project structure and build configuration
2. **UI Component Library** - Design system and reusable components
3. **Document Management Interface** - Upload, processing, and management UI
4. **Real-time Q&A Interface** - Streaming answers with citations
5. **History Dashboard** - Search, filtering, and analytics visualization
6. **Responsive Design** - Mobile and desktop compatibility
7. **API Integration** - Comprehensive backend connectivity

## Implementation Roadmap

### 1. React Application Setup

#### 1.1 Project Initialization
```bash
# Create React app with TypeScript
npx create-react-app sociorag-ui --template typescript
cd sociorag-ui

# Install core dependencies
npm install axios react-router-dom @mantine/core @mantine/hooks @emotion/react
```

#### 1.2 Project Structure
```
sociorag-ui/
├── public/
├── src/
│   ├── api/                 # API integration
│   ├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── contexts/            # React contexts
│   ├── hooks/               # Custom hooks
│   ├── pages/               # Main application pages
│   ├── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   ├── App.tsx              # Main application component
│   └── index.tsx            # Application entry point
└── package.json
```

### 2. UI Component Library

#### 2.1 Core Components
- Design system with consistent color scheme, typography, and spacing
- Component library with buttons, inputs, cards, modals, and notifications
- Layout components for application structure

#### 2.2 Specialized Components
- Document uploader with drag-and-drop functionality
- Processing progress indicator with real-time updates
- Streaming response display with citation highlighting
- Search interface with filters and sorting options

### 3. Document Management Interface

#### 3.1 Upload Interface
- Drag-and-drop file upload area
- File selection dialog
- Upload progress indicator
- File validation and error handling

#### 3.2 Document Processing
- Processing status display
- Real-time progress updates via SSE
- Processing stage indicators
- Entity extraction visualization

#### 3.3 Document Management
- Document list with metadata
- Search and filter capabilities
- Document deletion functionality
- Processing history

### 4. Real-time Q&A Interface

#### 4.1 Question Input
- Natural language query input
- Question history suggestions
- Voice input option (if time permits)

#### 4.2 Answer Display
- Streaming token-by-token response
- Citation highlighting and references
- Expandable source context
- Copy and export functionality

#### 4.3 Real-time Communication
- SSE implementation for streaming responses
- WebSocket integration for bidirectional communication
- Connection status indicators
- Automatic reconnection handling

### 5. History Dashboard

#### 5.1 History List
- Paginated history records
- Search and filtering capabilities
- Record details view
- Delete functionality

#### 5.2 Analytics Visualization
- Usage statistics charts
- Question types analysis
- Response time metrics
- Document coverage visualization

### 6. Responsive Design

#### 6.1 Mobile Layout
- Touch-friendly interfaces
- Responsive layout adjustments
- Performance optimizations for mobile devices

#### 6.2 Desktop Enhancements
- Keyboard shortcuts
- Multi-pane layouts
- Advanced visualization options

### 7. API Integration

#### 7.1 API Client
- Axios-based API client
- Request/response interceptors
- Error handling
- Authentication integration (if implemented)

#### 7.2 Real-time Integration
- SSE client implementation
- WebSocket client implementation
- Reconnection logic
- Event handling

## Development Approach

The frontend development will follow these principles:

1. **Component-First Development** - Build and test individual components before integration
2. **API-Driven Development** - Design components based on API contracts from Phase 6
3. **Progressive Enhancement** - Start with core functionality and add advanced features incrementally
4. **Responsive-First Design** - Design for mobile first, then enhance for desktop
5. **Accessibility Focus** - Ensure all components are accessible and follow WCAG guidelines

## Testing Strategy

1. **Component Testing** - Unit tests for individual components
2. **Integration Testing** - Tests for component interactions
3. **End-to-End Testing** - Full application workflows
4. **API Mock Testing** - Testing with mocked API responses
5. **Real Backend Testing** - Integration tests with the actual backend

## Delivery Timeline

- Week 1: Project setup, component library, and basic application structure
- Week 2: Document management interface and API integration
- Week 3: Q&A interface with real-time capabilities
- Week 4: History dashboard, responsive design, and final polish

## Success Criteria

- All Phase 7 objectives implemented and functional
- Comprehensive integration with Phase 6 backend
- Responsive design working on both mobile and desktop
- Clean, intuitive user interface for all core functionality
- Comprehensive documentation for frontend development

---

*Plan prepared on May 26, 2025*
