docs/ui_component_documentation.md, before:

# UI Component Documentation

## Overview
This document provides comprehensive documentation for all UI components in the SocioGraph frontend application. Each component is designed to be reusable, accessible, and support both light/dark themes with internationalization.

## Base UI Components

### Card Component
**Location**: `src/components/ui/Card.tsx`

A flexible container component for grouping related content.

```typescript
interface CardProps {
  children: ComponentChildren;
  className?: string;
}

// Usage
<Card className="p-6">
  <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Card Title</h3>
  <p className="text-gray-600 dark:text-gray-300">Card content goes here.</p>
</Card>
```

**Features**:
- Responsive design
- Dark mode support
- Custom styling via className
- Semantic HTML structure

**Styling**:
- Background: White (light) / Gray-800 (dark)
- Border: Gray-200 (light) / Gray-700 (dark)
- Shadow: Subtle drop shadow
- Border radius: 8px

### Tabs Component
**Location**: `src/components/ui/Tabs.tsx`

A tabbed interface for organizing content into switchable panels.

```typescript
interface TabsProps {
  defaultValue: string;
  children: ComponentChildren;
  className?: string;
}

// Usage
<Tabs defaultValue="search">
  <Tabs.List className="mb-4">
    <Tabs.Trigger value="search">Search</Tabs.Trigger>
    <Tabs.Trigger value="upload">Upload</Tabs.Trigger>
  </Tabs.List>
  <Tabs.Content value="search">
    <SearchInterface />
  </Tabs.Content>
  <Tabs.Content value="upload">
    <FileUploader />
  </Tabs.Content>
</Tabs>
```

**Features**:
- Keyboard navigation (Arrow keys, Tab, Enter, Space)
- ARIA accessibility attributes
- Active state management
- Custom trigger and content styling

**Accessibility**:
- `role="tablist"` for tab container
- `role="tab"` for individual tabs
- `role="tabpanel"` for content panels
- `aria-selected` for active tab
- `tabindex` management

## Navigation Components

### Navigation Component
**Location**: `src/components/Navigation.tsx`

Main navigation component with responsive design and mobile menu support.

```typescript
interface NavigationProps {
  currentPath: string;
}

// Usage
<Navigation currentPath="/history" />
```

**Features**:
- Responsive design (desktop horizontal, mobile hamburger)
- Route highlighting
- Theme toggle integration
- RTL support for Arabic
- Mobile menu overlay

**Navigation Items**:
- Home (`/`)
- History (`/history`)
- Saved (`/saved`)
- Settings (`/settings`)

**Mobile Behavior**:
- Hamburger menu button
- Full-screen overlay menu
- Touch-friendly tap targets
- Auto-close on navigation

## Search Components

### SearchBar Component
**Location**: `src/components/SearchBar.tsx`

Advanced search interface with translation toggle and keyboard shortcuts.

```typescript
interface SearchBarProps {
  onSearch: (query: string) => void;
  disabled?: boolean;
  placeholder?: string;
}

// Usage
<SearchBar 
  onSearch={handleSearch}
  disabled={isProcessing}
  placeholder="Ask a question..."
/>
```

**Features**:
- Multi-line text input
- Translation toggle button
- Enter to submit (Shift+Enter for new line)
- Loading states
- Character count (optional)
- Input validation

**Keyboard Shortcuts**:
- `Enter`: Submit search
- `Shift + Enter`: New line
- `Ctrl/Cmd + A`: Select all
- `Escape`: Clear focus

**Styling States**:
- Default: Gray border
- Focus: Blue border with shadow
- Error: Red border
- Disabled: Reduced opacity

### StreamAnswer Component
**Location**: `src/components/StreamAnswer.tsx`

Real-time answer display with markdown rendering and typing animation.

```typescript
interface StreamAnswerProps {
  markdown: string;
  isComplete: boolean;
  error?: string | null;
  language?: 'en' | 'ar';
}

// Usage
<StreamAnswer 
  markdown={responseText}
  isComplete={streamComplete}
  error={errorMessage}
  language="en"
/>
```

**Features**:
- Markdown rendering with syntax highlighting
- Typing animation effect
- RTL text support
- Error state display
- Loading indicators
- Scrollable content

**Markdown Support**:
- Headers (H1-H6)
- Bold and italic text
- Lists (ordered and unordered)
- Code blocks and inline code
- Links (external open in new tab)
- Blockquotes
- Tables

**RTL Handling**:
- Automatic text direction detection
- Mixed content support (Arabic + English)
- Proper alignment for different languages

## File Management Components

### FileUploader Component
**Location**: `src/components/FileUploader.tsx`

Drag-and-drop file upload with progress tracking and multiple file support.

```typescript
interface FileUploaderProps {
  onUpload: (files: File[]) => void;
  accept?: string;
  multiple?: boolean;
  maxFiles?: number;
  maxSize?: number; // in bytes
}

// Usage
<FileUploader 
  onUpload={handleFileUpload}
  accept=".pdf"
  multiple={true}
  maxFiles={5}
  maxSize={10 * 1024 * 1024} // 10MB
/>
```

**Features**:
- Drag and drop interface
- Click to browse files
- File type validation
- File size validation
- Progress indicators
- Success/error feedback
- Preview of selected files

**Supported Events**:
- `dragover`: Visual feedback
- `dragleave`: Reset visual state
- `drop`: Handle file drop
- `change`: Handle file input

**Visual States**:
- Idle: Dashed border
- Drag over: Solid blue border
- Uploading: Progress bar
- Success: Green checkmark
- Error: Red error message

**File Validation**:
- MIME type checking
- File size limits
- File count limits
- Custom validation functions

### ProgressBar Component
**Location**: `src/components/ProgressBar.tsx`

Visual progress indicator for upload and processing operations.

```typescript
interface ProgressBarProps {
  progress: number; // 0-100
  status?: 'idle' | 'processing' | 'complete' | 'error';
  message?: string;
  showPercentage?: boolean;
}

// Usage
<ProgressBar 
  progress={uploadProgress}
  status="processing"
  message="Uploading document..."
  showPercentage={true}
/>
```

**Features**:
- Animated progress bar
- Status indicators
- Custom messages
- Percentage display
- Color coding by status

**Status Colors**:
- `idle`: Gray
- `processing`: Blue with animation
- `complete`: Green
- `error`: Red

**Animation**:
- Smooth progress transitions
- Pulse effect for processing
- Success celebration animation

## Page Components

### Home Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Home.tsx`

Main application page with search and upload functionality.

**Layout Structure**:
```typescript
<div className="container mx-auto px-4 py-8">
  <header className="text-center mb-8">
    <h1>SocioGraph</h1>
    <p>Intelligent Document Analysis</p>
  </header>
  
  <Tabs defaultValue="search">
    <Tabs.List>
      <Tabs.Trigger value="search">Search</Tabs.Trigger>
      <Tabs.Trigger value="upload">Upload</Tabs.Trigger>
    </Tabs.List>
    
    <Tabs.Content value="search">
      <SearchBar onSearch={handleSearch} />
      {searchResults && (
        <StreamAnswer 
          markdown={searchResults}
          isComplete={isSearchComplete}
        />
      )}
    </Tabs.Content>
    
    <Tabs.Content value="upload">
      <FileUploader onUpload={handleUpload} />
      {uploadProgress > 0 && (
        <ProgressBar progress={uploadProgress} />
      )}
    </Tabs.Content>
  </Tabs>
</div>
```

**Features**:
- Tabbed interface for search/upload
- Real-time search results
- File upload with progress
- Responsive layout
- Loading states

### History Page
**Location**: `src/pages/History.tsx`

Query history management with rerun functionality.

**Key Components**:
- History item list
- Search result preview
- Rerun functionality
- Delete actions
- Pagination

```typescript
interface HistoryItem {
  id: string;
  query: string;
  answer: string;
  timestamp: string;
  language: string;
}

// History Item Display
<Card className="p-4">
  <div className="flex justify-between items-start">
    <div className="flex-1">
      <p className="font-medium">{item.query}</p>
      <div className="text-sm text-gray-500">
        <Clock className="w-4 h-4 mr-1" />
        {formatTimestamp(item.timestamp)}
      </div>
    </div>
    
    <div className="flex space-x-2">
      <button onClick={() => rerunQuery(item)}>
        <Play className="w-4 h-4" />
        Rerun
      </button>
      <button onClick={() => deleteItem(item.id)}>
        <Trash2 className="w-4 h-4" />
        Delete
      </button>
    </div>
  </div>
  
  {item.answer && (
    <div className="mt-3 p-3 bg-gray-50 rounded">
      <p className="text-sm">{truncateText(item.answer, 200)}</p>
    </div>
  )}
</Card>
```

### Saved Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Saved.tsx`

Saved documents management with download functionality.

**Features**:
- Grid layout for documents
- File metadata display
- Download functionality
- Search/filter capabilities
- Bulk operations

```typescript
interface SavedFile {
  id: string;
  filename: string;
  size: number;
  uploadDate: string;
  downloadUrl: string;
}

// Document Grid Item
<Card className="p-4 hover:shadow-lg transition-shadow">
  <div className="flex items-center justify-between mb-3">
    <File className="w-8 h-8 text-blue-600" />
    <button onClick={() => downloadFile(file)}>
      <Download className="w-5 h-5" />
    </button>
  </div>
  
  <h3 className="font-medium truncate" title={file.filename}>
    {file.filename}
  </h3>
  
  <div className="text-sm text-gray-500 mt-2">
    <p>Size: {formatFileSize(file.size)}</p>
    <p>Uploaded: {formatDate(file.uploadDate)}</p>
  </div>
</Card>
```

### Settings Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Settings.tsx`

Application configuration and preferences.

**Settings Categories**:

1. **Appearance**
   - Theme toggle (Light/Dark)
   - Language selection (English/Arabic)
   - Font size preferences

2. **Search Settings**
   - Top K results
   - Top K rerank
   - Temperature setting
   - Translation preferences

3. **Data Management**
   - Corpus reset
   - Export settings
   - Cache management

```typescript
// Settings Form Structure
<div className="space-y-6">
  <Card className="p-6">
    <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Appearance</h3>
    
    <div className="space-y-4">
      <div className="flex items-center justify-between">
        <label>Dark Mode</label>
        <button 
          onClick={toggleTheme}
          className={`toggle ${isDark ? 'active' : ''}`}
        >
          <span className="toggle-slider" />
        </button>
      </div>
      
      <div className="flex items-center justify-between">
        <label>Language</label>
        <select 
          value={language}
          onChange={(e) => setLanguage(e.target.value)}
          className="select"
        >
          <option value="en">English</option>
          <option value="ar">العربية</option>
        </select>
      </div>
    </div>
  </Card>
  
  <Card className="p-6">
    <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Search Settings</h3>
    
    <div className="space-y-4">
      <div>
        <label className="block text-sm font-medium mb-2">
          Top K Results: {settings.topK}
        </label>
        <input
          type="range"
          min="1"
          max="20"
          value={settings.topK}
          onChange={(e) => updateSettings({ topK: parseInt(e.target.value) })}
          className="range"
        />
      </div>
      
      <div>
        <label className="block text-sm font-medium mb-2">
          Temperature: {settings.temperature}
        </label>
        <input
          type="range"
          min="0"
          max="2"
          step="0.1"
          value={settings.temperature}
          onChange={(e) => updateSettings({ temperature: parseFloat(e.target.value) })}
          className="range"
        />
      </div>
    </div>
  </Card>
</div>
```

## Accessibility Features

### Keyboard Navigation
All components support keyboard navigation:

- **Tab**: Move focus between interactive elements
- **Enter/Space**: Activate buttons and controls
- **Arrow Keys**: Navigate within complex widgets (tabs, menus)
- **Escape**: Close modals and overlays

### ARIA Attributes
Components include appropriate ARIA labels:

```typescript
// Button with icon
<button 
  aria-label="Close dialog"
  className="btn-icon"
>
  <X className="w-4 h-4" />
</button>

// Form input
<input
  type="text"
  aria-describedby="search-help"
  aria-invalid={hasError}
  className="input"
/>
<div id="search-help" className="text-sm text-gray-500">
  Enter your search query
</div>

// Loading state
<div 
  role="status" 
  aria-live="polite"
  aria-label="Searching..."
>
  <Loader className="animate-spin" />
</div>
```

### Focus Management
- Visible focus indicators
- Logical tab order
- Focus trapping in modals
- Skip links for navigation

## Responsive Design

### Breakpoints
```css
/* Mobile: < 768px */
.container {
  padding: 1rem;
}

/* Tablet: 768px - 1024px */
@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .container {
    padding: 2rem;
    max-width: 768px;
  }
}

/* Desktop: > 1024px */
@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  .container {
    max-width: 1024px;
    margin: 0 auto;
  }
}
```

### Mobile Adaptations
- Touch-friendly button sizes (44px minimum)
- Simplified navigation menu
- Stacked layouts instead of side-by-side
- Larger text for readability
- Swipe gestures for tabs

### Component Responsive Behavior
```typescript
// Navigation: Desktop horizontal, mobile hamburger
<nav className="hidden md:flex">
  {/* Desktop navigation */}
</nav>
<nav className="md:hidden">
  {/* Mobile navigation */}
</nav>

// Cards: Grid on desktop, stack on mobile
<div className="grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-4">
  {items.map(item => <Card key={item.id}>{item.content}</Card>)}
</div>

// Search: Full width on mobile, constrained on desktop
<div className="w-full max-w-2xl mx-auto">
  <SearchBar />
</div>
```

## Styling Guidelines

### Color System
```css
/* Primary Colors */
--color-primary-50: #eff6ff;
--color-primary-100: #dbeafe;
--color-primary-500: #3b82f6;
--color-primary-600: #2563eb;
--color-primary-700: #1d4ed8;

/* Semantic Colors */
--color-success: #10b981;
--color-warning: #f59e0b;
--color-error: #ef4444;
--color-info: #3b82f6;
```

### Typography Scale
```css
/* Font Sizes */
.text-xs { font-size: 0.75rem; }    /* 12px */
.text-sm { font-size: 0.875rem; }   /* 14px */
.text-base { font-size: 1rem; }     /* 16px */
.text-lg { font-size: 1.125rem; }   /* 18px */
.text-xl { font-size: 1.25rem; }    /* 20px */
.text-2xl { font-size: 1.5rem; }    /* 24px */
.text-3xl { font-size: 1.875rem; }  /* 30px */

/* Font Weights */
.font-normal { font-weight: 400; }
.font-medium { font-weight: 500; }
.font-semibold { font-weight: 600; }
.font-bold { font-weight: 700; }
```

### Spacing System
```css
/* Spacing Scale (based on 0.25rem = 4px) */
.p-1 { padding: 0.25rem; }     /* 4px */
.p-2 { padding: 0.5rem; }      /* 8px */
.p-3 { padding: 0.75rem; }     /* 12px */
.p-4 { padding: 1rem; }        /* 16px */
.p-6 { padding: 1.5rem; }      /* 24px */
.p-8 { padding: 2rem; }        /* 32px */
```

## Performance Considerations

### Component Optimization
```typescript
// Memoize expensive components
import { memo } from 'preact/compat';

const ExpensiveComponent = memo(({ data }: { data: any[] }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      {data.map(item => (
        <div key={item.id}>{item.name}</div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
});

// Use callback memoization for event handlers
import { useCallback } from 'preact/hooks';

function ParentComponent() {
  const handleClick = useCallback((id: string) => {
    // Handle click
  }, []);

  return <ChildComponent onClick={handleClick} />;
}
```

### Bundle Size Optimization
- Tree shaking for unused code
- Dynamic imports for large components
- Optimized icon loading
- Compressed images

### Loading States
All components handle loading states gracefully:

```typescript
function DataComponent() {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(true);
  const [data, setData] = useState(null);

  if (loading) {
    return (
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center p-8">
        <Loader className="animate-spin w-6 h-6 mr-2" />
        <span>Loading...</span>
      </div>
    );
  }

  return <div>{/* Render data */}</div>;
}
```

---

This documentation covers all major UI components in the SocioGraph frontend. Each component is designed to be maintainable, accessible, and performant while providing a consistent user experience across the application.

Commit message:

feat: Implement OpenRouter API Key Management via Web Interface
- Add comprehensive admin API endpoints for system management
- Implement real-time API key updates without server restart
- Add secure web interface for API key configuration
- Enable automatic .env file persistence and config cache management

Backend Changes:
- Enhanced admin.py with API key management endpoint (PUT /api/admin/api-keys)
- Added system health, metrics, and configuration monitoring APIs
- Implemented configuration cache clearing for immediate updates
- Fixed LLM singleton to reload API keys from updated config
- Added comprehensive admin API documentation

Frontend Changes:
- Enhanced Settings page with System Configuration section
- Added secure password input for API key management
- Implemented real-time status indicators (green checkmark/red X)
- Added save/cancel functionality with loading states
- Integrated toast notifications for user feedback

Documentation:
- Created comprehensive configuration guide covering all methods
- Updated API documentation with admin endpoints
- Enhanced UI component documentation
- Updated README with web-based configuration instructions
- Added API endpoints reference for admin functions

Features:
- ✅ No server restart required for API key changes
- ✅ Real-time configuration validation and status display
- ✅ Secure .env file persistence with error handling
- ✅ Visual feedback and comprehensive error handling
- ✅ Complete admin API with health monitoring and metrics

This implementation provides a user-friendly alternative to manual .env
file editing while maintaining full backward compatibility.

docs/ui_component_documentation.md, after:

# UI Component Documentation

## Overview
This document provides comprehensive documentation for all UI components in the SocioGraph frontend application. Each component is designed to be reusable, accessible, and support both light/dark themes with internationalization.

## Base UI Components

### Card Component
**Location**: `src/components/ui/Card.tsx`

A flexible container component for grouping related content.

```typescript
interface CardProps {
  children: ComponentChildren;
  className?: string;
}

// Usage
<Card className="p-6">
  <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Card Title</h3>
  <p className="text-gray-600 dark:text-gray-300">Card content goes here.</p>
</Card>
```

**Features**:
- Responsive design
- Dark mode support
- Custom styling via className
- Semantic HTML structure

**Styling**:
- Background: White (light) / Gray-800 (dark)
- Border: Gray-200 (light) / Gray-700 (dark)
- Shadow: Subtle drop shadow
- Border radius: 8px

### Tabs Component
**Location**: `src/components/ui/Tabs.tsx`

A tabbed interface for organizing content into switchable panels.

```typescript
interface TabsProps {
  defaultValue: string;
  children: ComponentChildren;
  className?: string;
}

// Usage
<Tabs defaultValue="search">
  <Tabs.List className="mb-4">
    <Tabs.Trigger value="search">Search</Tabs.Trigger>
    <Tabs.Trigger value="upload">Upload</Tabs.Trigger>
  </Tabs.List>
  <Tabs.Content value="search">
    <SearchInterface />
  </Tabs.Content>
  <Tabs.Content value="upload">
    <FileUploader />
  </Tabs.Content>
</Tabs>
```

**Features**:
- Keyboard navigation (Arrow keys, Tab, Enter, Space)
- ARIA accessibility attributes
- Active state management
- Custom trigger and content styling

**Accessibility**:
- `role="tablist"` for tab container
- `role="tab"` for individual tabs
- `role="tabpanel"` for content panels
- `aria-selected` for active tab
- `tabindex` management

## Navigation Components

### Navigation Component
**Location**: `src/components/Navigation.tsx`

Main navigation component with responsive design and mobile menu support.

```typescript
interface NavigationProps {
  currentPath: string;
}

// Usage
<Navigation currentPath="/history" />
```

**Features**:
- Responsive design (desktop horizontal, mobile hamburger)
- Route highlighting
- Theme toggle integration
- RTL support for Arabic
- Mobile menu overlay

**Navigation Items**:
- Home (`/`)
- History (`/history`)
- Saved (`/saved`)
- Settings (`/settings`)

**Mobile Behavior**:
- Hamburger menu button
- Full-screen overlay menu
- Touch-friendly tap targets
- Auto-close on navigation

## Search Components

### SearchBar Component
**Location**: `src/components/SearchBar.tsx`

Advanced search interface with translation toggle and keyboard shortcuts.

```typescript
interface SearchBarProps {
  onSearch: (query: string) => void;
  disabled?: boolean;
  placeholder?: string;
}

// Usage
<SearchBar 
  onSearch={handleSearch}
  disabled={isProcessing}
  placeholder="Ask a question..."
/>
```

**Features**:
- Multi-line text input
- Translation toggle button
- Enter to submit (Shift+Enter for new line)
- Loading states
- Character count (optional)
- Input validation

**Keyboard Shortcuts**:
- `Enter`: Submit search
- `Shift + Enter`: New line
- `Ctrl/Cmd + A`: Select all
- `Escape`: Clear focus

**Styling States**:
- Default: Gray border
- Focus: Blue border with shadow
- Error: Red border
- Disabled: Reduced opacity

### StreamAnswer Component
**Location**: `src/components/StreamAnswer.tsx`

Real-time answer display with markdown rendering and typing animation.

```typescript
interface StreamAnswerProps {
  markdown: string;
  isComplete: boolean;
  error?: string | null;
  language?: 'en' | 'ar';
}

// Usage
<StreamAnswer 
  markdown={responseText}
  isComplete={streamComplete}
  error={errorMessage}
  language="en"
/>
```

**Features**:
- Markdown rendering with syntax highlighting
- Typing animation effect
- RTL text support
- Error state display
- Loading indicators
- Scrollable content

**Markdown Support**:
- Headers (H1-H6)
- Bold and italic text
- Lists (ordered and unordered)
- Code blocks and inline code
- Links (external open in new tab)
- Blockquotes
- Tables

**RTL Handling**:
- Automatic text direction detection
- Mixed content support (Arabic + English)
- Proper alignment for different languages

## File Management Components

### FileUploader Component
**Location**: `src/components/FileUploader.tsx`

Drag-and-drop file upload with progress tracking and multiple file support.

```typescript
interface FileUploaderProps {
  onUpload: (files: File[]) => void;
  accept?: string;
  multiple?: boolean;
  maxFiles?: number;
  maxSize?: number; // in bytes
}

// Usage
<FileUploader 
  onUpload={handleFileUpload}
  accept=".pdf"
  multiple={true}
  maxFiles={5}
  maxSize={10 * 1024 * 1024} // 10MB
/>
```

**Features**:
- Drag and drop interface
- Click to browse files
- File type validation
- File size validation
- Progress indicators
- Success/error feedback
- Preview of selected files

**Supported Events**:
- `dragover`: Visual feedback
- `dragleave`: Reset visual state
- `drop`: Handle file drop
- `change`: Handle file input

**Visual States**:
- Idle: Dashed border
- Drag over: Solid blue border
- Uploading: Progress bar
- Success: Green checkmark
- Error: Red error message

**File Validation**:
- MIME type checking
- File size limits
- File count limits
- Custom validation functions

### ProgressBar Component
**Location**: `src/components/ProgressBar.tsx`

Visual progress indicator for upload and processing operations.

```typescript
interface ProgressBarProps {
  progress: number; // 0-100
  status?: 'idle' | 'processing' | 'complete' | 'error';
  message?: string;
  showPercentage?: boolean;
}

// Usage
<ProgressBar 
  progress={uploadProgress}
  status="processing"
  message="Uploading document..."
  showPercentage={true}
/>
```

**Features**:
- Animated progress bar
- Status indicators
- Custom messages
- Percentage display
- Color coding by status

**Status Colors**:
- `idle`: Gray
- `processing`: Blue with animation
- `complete`: Green
- `error`: Red

**Animation**:
- Smooth progress transitions
- Pulse effect for processing
- Success celebration animation

## Page Components

### Home Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Home.tsx`

Main application page with search and upload functionality.

**Layout Structure**:
```typescript
<div className="container mx-auto px-4 py-8">
  <header className="text-center mb-8">
    <h1>SocioGraph</h1>
    <p>Intelligent Document Analysis</p>
  </header>
  
  <Tabs defaultValue="search">
    <Tabs.List>
      <Tabs.Trigger value="search">Search</Tabs.Trigger>
      <Tabs.Trigger value="upload">Upload</Tabs.Trigger>
    </Tabs.List>
    
    <Tabs.Content value="search">
      <SearchBar onSearch={handleSearch} />
      {searchResults && (
        <StreamAnswer 
          markdown={searchResults}
          isComplete={isSearchComplete}
        />
      )}
    </Tabs.Content>
    
    <Tabs.Content value="upload">
      <FileUploader onUpload={handleUpload} />
      {uploadProgress > 0 && (
        <ProgressBar progress={uploadProgress} />
      )}
    </Tabs.Content>
  </Tabs>
</div>
```

**Features**:
- Tabbed interface for search/upload
- Real-time search results
- File upload with progress
- Responsive layout
- Loading states

### History Page
**Location**: `src/pages/History.tsx`

Query history management with rerun functionality.

**Key Components**:
- History item list
- Search result preview
- Rerun functionality
- Delete actions
- Pagination

```typescript
interface HistoryItem {
  id: string;
  query: string;
  answer: string;
  timestamp: string;
  language: string;
}

// History Item Display
<Card className="p-4">
  <div className="flex justify-between items-start">
    <div className="flex-1">
      <p className="font-medium">{item.query}</p>
      <div className="text-sm text-gray-500">
        <Clock className="w-4 h-4 mr-1" />
        {formatTimestamp(item.timestamp)}
      </div>
    </div>
    
    <div className="flex space-x-2">
      <button onClick={() => rerunQuery(item)}>
        <Play className="w-4 h-4" />
        Rerun
      </button>
      <button onClick={() => deleteItem(item.id)}>
        <Trash2 className="w-4 h-4" />
        Delete
      </button>
    </div>
  </div>
  
  {item.answer && (
    <div className="mt-3 p-3 bg-gray-50 rounded">
      <p className="text-sm">{truncateText(item.answer, 200)}</p>
    </div>
  )}
</Card>
```

### Saved Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Saved.tsx`

Saved documents management with download functionality.

**Features**:
- Grid layout for documents
- File metadata display
- Download functionality
- Search/filter capabilities
- Bulk operations

```typescript
interface SavedFile {
  id: string;
  filename: string;
  size: number;
  uploadDate: string;
  downloadUrl: string;
}

// Document Grid Item
<Card className="p-4 hover:shadow-lg transition-shadow">
  <div className="flex items-center justify-between mb-3">
    <File className="w-8 h-8 text-blue-600" />
    <button onClick={() => downloadFile(file)}>
      <Download className="w-5 h-5" />
    </button>
  </div>
  
  <h3 className="font-medium truncate" title={file.filename}>
    {file.filename}
  </h3>
  
  <div className="text-sm text-gray-500 mt-2">
    <p>Size: {formatFileSize(file.size)}</p>
    <p>Uploaded: {formatDate(file.uploadDate)}</p>
  </div>
</Card>
```

### Settings Page
**Location**: `src/pages/Settings.tsx`

Application configuration and preferences with system administration capabilities.

**Settings Categories**:

1. **Appearance**
   - Theme toggle (Light/Dark)
   - Language selection (English/Arabic)
   - Font size preferences

2. **Search Settings**
   - Top K results
   - Top K rerank
   - Temperature setting
   - Translation preferences

3. **Data Management**
   - Corpus reset
   - Export settings
   - Cache management

4. **System Configuration** ⭐ NEW
   - OpenRouter API Key management with secure input
   - System health monitoring with real-time status
   - Configuration status indicators (green checkmark/red X)
   - One-click API key updates with persistence to .env file

```typescript
// Settings Form Structure
<div className="space-y-6">
  <Card className="p-6">
    <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Appearance</h3>
    
    <div className="space-y-4">
      <div className="flex items-center justify-between">
        <label>Dark Mode</label>
        <button 
          onClick={toggleTheme}
          className={`toggle ${isDark ? 'active' : ''}`}
        >
          <span className="toggle-slider" />
        </button>
      </div>
      
      <div className="flex items-center justify-between">
        <label>Language</label>
        <select 
          value={language}
          onChange={(e) => setLanguage(e.target.value)}
          className="select"
        >
          <option value="en">English</option>
          <option value="ar">العربية</option>
        </select>
      </div>
    </div>
  </Card>
  
  <Card className="p-6">
    <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-4">Search Settings</h3>
    
    <div className="space-y-4">
      <div>
        <label className="block text-sm font-medium mb-2">
          Top K Results: {settings.topK}
        </label>
        <input
          type="range"
          min="1"
          max="20"
          value={settings.topK}
          onChange={(e) => updateSettings({ topK: parseInt(e.target.value) })}
          className="range"
        />
      </div>
      
      <div>
        <label className="block text-sm font-medium mb-2">
          Temperature: {settings.temperature}
        </label>
        <input
          type="range"
          min="0"
          max="2"
          step="0.1"
          value={settings.temperature}
          onChange={(e) => updateSettings({ temperature: parseFloat(e.target.value) })}
          className="range"
        />
      </div>
    </div>
  </Card>
</div>
```

## Accessibility Features

### Keyboard Navigation
All components support keyboard navigation:

- **Tab**: Move focus between interactive elements
- **Enter/Space**: Activate buttons and controls
- **Arrow Keys**: Navigate within complex widgets (tabs, menus)
- **Escape**: Close modals and overlays

### ARIA Attributes
Components include appropriate ARIA labels:

```typescript
// Button with icon
<button 
  aria-label="Close dialog"
  className="btn-icon"
>
  <X className="w-4 h-4" />
</button>

// Form input
<input
  type="text"
  aria-describedby="search-help"
  aria-invalid={hasError}
  className="input"
/>
<div id="search-help" className="text-sm text-gray-500">
  Enter your search query
</div>

// Loading state
<div 
  role="status" 
  aria-live="polite"
  aria-label="Searching..."
>
  <Loader className="animate-spin" />
</div>
```

### Focus Management
- Visible focus indicators
- Logical tab order
- Focus trapping in modals
- Skip links for navigation

## Responsive Design

### Breakpoints
```css
/* Mobile: < 768px */
.container {
  padding: 1rem;
}

/* Tablet: 768px - 1024px */
@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .container {
    padding: 2rem;
    max-width: 768px;
  }
}

/* Desktop: > 1024px */
@media (min-width: 1024px) {
  .container {
    max-width: 1024px;
    margin: 0 auto;
  }
}
```

### Mobile Adaptations
- Touch-friendly button sizes (44px minimum)
- Simplified navigation menu
- Stacked layouts instead of side-by-side
- Larger text for readability
- Swipe gestures for tabs

### Component Responsive Behavior
```typescript
// Navigation: Desktop horizontal, mobile hamburger
<nav className="hidden md:flex">
  {/* Desktop navigation */}
</nav>
<nav className="md:hidden">
  {/* Mobile navigation */}
</nav>

// Cards: Grid on desktop, stack on mobile
<div className="grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-4">
  {items.map(item => <Card key={item.id}>{item.content}</Card>)}
</div>

// Search: Full width on mobile, constrained on desktop
<div className="w-full max-w-2xl mx-auto">
  <SearchBar />
</div>
```

## Styling Guidelines

### Color System
```css
/* Primary Colors */
--color-primary-50: #eff6ff;
--color-primary-100: #dbeafe;
--color-primary-500: #3b82f6;
--color-primary-600: #2563eb;
--color-primary-700: #1d4ed8;

/* Semantic Colors */
--color-success: #10b981;
--color-warning: #f59e0b;
--color-error: #ef4444;
--color-info: #3b82f6;
```

### Typography Scale
```css
/* Font Sizes */
.text-xs { font-size: 0.75rem; }    /* 12px */
.text-sm { font-size: 0.875rem; }   /* 14px */
.text-base { font-size: 1rem; }     /* 16px */
.text-lg { font-size: 1.125rem; }   /* 18px */
.text-xl { font-size: 1.25rem; }    /* 20px */
.text-2xl { font-size: 1.5rem; }    /* 24px */
.text-3xl { font-size: 1.875rem; }  /* 30px */

/* Font Weights */
.font-normal { font-weight: 400; }
.font-medium { font-weight: 500; }
.font-semibold { font-weight: 600; }
.font-bold { font-weight: 700; }
```

### Spacing System
```css
/* Spacing Scale (based on 0.25rem = 4px) */
.p-1 { padding: 0.25rem; }     /* 4px */
.p-2 { padding: 0.5rem; }      /* 8px */
.p-3 { padding: 0.75rem; }     /* 12px */
.p-4 { padding: 1rem; }        /* 16px */
.p-6 { padding: 1.5rem; }      /* 24px */
.p-8 { padding: 2rem; }        /* 32px */
```

## Performance Considerations

### Component Optimization
```typescript
// Memoize expensive components
import { memo } from 'preact/compat';

const ExpensiveComponent = memo(({ data }: { data: any[] }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      {data.map(item => (
        <div key={item.id}>{item.name}</div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
});

// Use callback memoization for event handlers
import { useCallback } from 'preact/hooks';

function ParentComponent() {
  const handleClick = useCallback((id: string) => {
    // Handle click
  }, []);

  return <ChildComponent onClick={handleClick} />;
}
```

### Bundle Size Optimization
- Tree shaking for unused code
- Dynamic imports for large components
- Optimized icon loading
- Compressed images

### Loading States
All components handle loading states gracefully:

```typescript
function DataComponent() {
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(true);
  const [data, setData] = useState(null);

  if (loading) {
    return (
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center p-8">
        <Loader className="animate-spin w-6 h-6 mr-2" />
        <span>Loading...</span>
      </div>
    );
  }

  return <div>{/* Render data */}</div>;
}
```

---

This documentation covers all major UI components in the SocioGraph frontend. Each component is designed to be maintainable, accessible, and performant while providing a consistent user experience across the application.
